---
title: About DaRT 10
description: About DaRT 10
author: jamiejdt
ms.assetid: 02378035-58d1-4095-82fe-d60734a746fb
ms.pagetype: mdop
ms.mktglfcycl: support
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w10
translationtype: Human Translation
ms.sourcegitcommit: 2d1f98a24d9330d6b3bce488b2cac6ac11b5e4bf
ms.openlocfilehash: 798a7abcc87602ee18d214bdf971bdf92612f08f

---


# About DaRT 10


DaRT 10 includes the following enhancements and changes as described in this topic.

## <a href="" id="what-s-new"></a>What’s new


-   **Support for Windows 10**

    You can create DaRT images by using Windows 10.

    **Note**  
    For earlier versions of the Windows operating systems, continue to use the earlier versions of DaRT.

     

-   **Windows Defender**

    Windows Defender is now part of the Windows 10 Preinstallation Environment (PE) image. As a result, Windows Defender has been removed from the DaRT 10 toolset.

## Requirements


-   **Windows Assessment and Development Kit 10.0**

    Windows Assessment and Development Kit (ADK) 10.0 is a required prerequisite for the DaRT Recovery Image Wizard. Windows ADK 10.0 contains deployment tools that are used to customize, deploy, and service Windows images. It also contains the Windows Preinstallation Environment (Windows PE).

    **Note**  
    Windows ADK 10.0 is not required if you are installing only Remote Connection Viewer or Crash Analyzer.

     

-   **Windows 10 Debugging Tools**

    To use the Crash Analyzer tool in DaRT 10, you need the required debugging tools, which are available in the Software Development Kit for Windows 10.

## Language availability


DaRT 10 is available in the following languages:

-   English (United States) en-US

-   French (France) fr-FR

-   Italian (Italy) it-IT

-   German (Germany) de-DE

-   Spanish, International Sort (Spain) es-ES

-   Korean (Korea) ko-KR

-   Japanese (Japan) ja-JP

-   Portuguese (Brazil) pt-BR

-   Russian (Russia) ru-RU

-   Chinese Traditional zh-TW

-   Chinese Simplified zh-CN

## How to Get MDOP Technologies


DaRT 10 is a part of the Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack (MDOP). MDOP is part of Microsoft Software Assurance. For more information about Microsoft Software Assurance and acquiring MDOP, see [How Do I Get MDOP](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=322049) (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=322049).

## Related topics


[Release Notes for DaRT 10](release-notes-for-dart-10.md)

 

 








<!--HONumber=Jun16_HO4-->


