---
title: How to Grant Access to an Application
description: How to Grant Access to an Application
author: jamiejdt
ms.assetid: e54d9e84-21f5-488f-b040-25f374d9289f
ms.pagetype: mdop, appcompat, virtualization
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.prod: w8
translationtype: Human Translation
ms.sourcegitcommit: 2d1f98a24d9330d6b3bce488b2cac6ac11b5e4bf
ms.openlocfilehash: 8554e9086f0fb8e0cf3d4fda1c313130e2c1d5eb

---


# How to Grant Access to an Application


As the administrator, you can use the Application Virtualization Server Management Console to determine which users can access which applications. You can do this when you import the Sequencer Project (SPRJ) or Open Software Descriptor (OSD) file or at anytime using the application's **Properties** dialog box. With both methods, use the **Access Permissions** options to add users.

**To grant access to an application**

1.  For an existing application, click the **Applications** node in the left pane. Right-click an application in the right pane, and choose **Properties**.

2.  Select the **Access Permissions** tab.

3.  To add user groups, click **Add**.

4.  In the **Add/Edit User Group** dialog box, navigate to the user group. You can also enter the domain and group by typing the information in the respective fields.

5.  Click **OK**. You can add other groups with the same pages.

6.  When the wizard reappears, click **OK**.

    **Note**  
    You must set up your groups in Active Directory Domain Services before you attempt to grant access to applications.

     

## Related topics


[How to Deny Access to an Application](how-to-deny-access-to-an-application.md)

[How to Manage Application Groups in the Server Management Console](how-to-manage-application-groups-in-the-server-management-console.md)

[How to Manage Application Licenses in the Server Management Console](how-to-manage-application-licenses-in-the-server-management-console.md)

[How to Manually Add an Application](how-to-manually-add-an-application.md)

 

 








<!--HONumber=Jun16_HO4-->


